Create docs for FusionAuth integration (#1)
FusionAuth/supabase: apps/docs/pages/guides/integrations/fusionauth.mdx

When you are redirected back to the **Applications** page, locate the application you created and click the green magnifying glass to view its details. Find the **OAuth configuration** section and write down both `Client Id` and `Client secret`.

You need to register your user for the application you created. Navigate to the **Users** tab and find your user. Click on the black **Manage User** button under the **Action** heading in the list and then on **Add registration** to save your user.

### Kickstart

Instead of manually setting up FusionAuth using the admin UI as you did above, you can use Kickstart. This tool allows you to get going quickly if you have a fresh installation of FusionAuth. Learn more about how to use [Kickstart](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart).

> Here's an example [Kickstart file](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-nextjs-single-sign-on/blob/main/kickstart/kickstart.json) which sets up FusionAuth for this tutorial.

Author: Great catch, thanks :smiley:

## Step 2: Setting up a Next.js application

> > There is a demo project in this [GitHub repository](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-supabase) that you can clone instead of manually creating the application.

Author: I thought of it as a fork from the Next.js app to leverage any updates we may have on that. But I can convert it to a standalone repo if you think that's better.

export default function Component() {
    const {data: session} = useSession()
    if (session) {
        return (
            <>
                Logged in as {session.user.email} <br/>
                <button onClick={() => signOut()}>Log out</button>
            </>
        );
    }
    return (
        <>
            Not logged in <br/>
            <button onClick={() => signIn()}>Log in</button>
        </>
    );
}
```

Then, you change your home component located at `src/pages/index.js` to include the `<LoginButton />` component anywhere in that fragment.

```jsx
// Other imports...
import LoginButton from '@/components/login-button';
export default function Home() {
    return (
        /* Other lines of the Home component */
        <LoginButton/>
        /* Other lines of the Home component */
    );
}
```

## Step 3: Creating an API Key in FusionAuth

To allow calling the FusionAuth API from your application, navigate to `Settings > API Keys` in your instance and click the green `+` icon to add a new API Key. In the `Endpoints` table, enable POST for the `/api/jwt/vend` resource and save it by clicking the blue floppy disk icon.

> ![Creating new API Key](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/api-key-vend-jwt.png)

Author: I think that I did, but just to make sure, I re-ran then on tinypng and it save 11 KB :shrug: 

I've now compressed the .mp4 using [freeconvert.com](https://www.freeconvert.com/video-compressor) and it saved 171 KB.

Give it a meaningful name, like *"Users can only manage their own events"*, select `ALL` as **Allowed operation** and set both **USING expression** and **WITH CHECK expression** as `get_user_id_from_jwt() = user_id` to call the function created above to extract the **User Id** and match it against the table's `user_id` column. Click `Review` and finally `Save policy` to finish editing it.

![Creating RLS policy](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/rls-policy.png)

## Step 7: Grabbing API settings

Click `Project Settings` in the sidebar and select the `API` menu in the navigation menu that opened. You'll have to write down these three values from this page that will be later used when [configuring environment variables](#step-10-configuring-environment-variables):

1. `URL` from the Project URL section.
2. `anon public key` from Project API keys.
3. `JWT Secret` from JWT Settings _(you need to click the `Reveal` button to display this information)_.

![Supabase API settings](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/api-settings.png)

## Step 8: Issuing JWTs with Supabase's key

> To issue a JWT that Supabase can trust, we need to import your project secret to your FusionAuth instance by browsing to `Settings > Key Master` and selecting `Import HMAC` in the top right button.

Author: It seems that they use a lot of "We".

E.g. https://supabase.com/docs/guides/integrations/auth0 has 19 "We" vs 5 "You", that's why I'm using it here. But I can change them.

- Paste the contents from the `JWT Secret` you copied earlier.
- You can leave other options as they are.
- Click `Save`.
- Write down the `Id` for the generated key, as you'll need it later.

<video width="99%" loop={true} muted={true} playsInline={true} controls={true}>
  <source src="/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/key-master-jwt.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

 To do this, change `src/pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js` to add some [callbacks](https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/callbacks), which are ways of personalizing your NextAuth.js session. We have provided some comments directly in code to better explain what is going on.

```jsx
import FusionAuthClient from '@/utils/fusionauth';

export const authOptions = {
  /* Maintain providerOptions as it is */
  callbacks: {
    async jwt({ token }) {
      if (!token.accessToken) {
        /**
         * Creating a new JWT for Supabase and using their claims as base
         * @link https://supabase.com/docs/learn/auth-deep-dive/auth-deep-dive-jwts
         * @link https://supabase.com/docs/learn/auth-deep-dive/auth-policies
         * @type {string}
         */
         try {

>            const vending = await FusionAuthClient.vendJWT({

Reviewer: Perhaps with a lambda?

>            const vending = await FusionAuthClient.vendJWT({

Author: We need to issue the JWT using Supabase's HMAC key and it requires an audience to be `authenticated`. AFAIK, we can't change the `aud`, right? And even if we could, I wanted to separate concerns (logging in to the app vs accessing the database).

![image](https://github.com/FusionAuth/supabase/assets/1877191/92991070-c6a4-43e9-afad-e1faa7ffb454)

>            const vending = await FusionAuthClient.vendJWT({

Reviewer: We cannnot change the `aud`. So let's explain why we are using the vend JWT API (also, how precious that key is and how carefully we should protect it).

             claims: {

>                // You can change this to your app name

Author: "Can", because it doesn't seem that Supabase verifies this at all.

               iss: 'My Supabase application',
               // The sub claim is usually what we use to match the JWT to rows in your database
               sub: token.sub,
               // The authenticated role is special in Supabase, it tells the API that this is an authenticated user
               // and will know to compare the JWT against any policies you've added to the requested resource (table or row).
               aud: 'authenticated',
            },

>             keyId: process.env.FUSIONAUTH_JWT_KEY_ID,

Reviewer: Where was this set? I don't see it mentioned anywhere?

Reviewer: Ah, looks like you set it below.

Author: I left a comment there to make it more clear.

    },
    async session({ session, token }) {
      // Grabbing the Access Token we generated in the callback above
      session.accessToken = token.accessToken;

      return session;
    },
  },
}
```

With these changes, the session object now has an `accessToken` property containing the JWT that Supabase needs.

## Step 9: Fetching data from Supabase

Add `@supabase/supabase-js` as a dependency to the project by running:

```shell
$ npm install next-auth @supabase/supabase-js
```

Create a `src/utils/supabase.js` file to return a Supabase client by informing your account URL, the anon public key and the JWT you generated in the previous step. These values will actually be stored in environment variables, which will be configured soon.

```jsx
import {createClient} from '@supabase/supabase-js';

const createSupabaseClient = (accessToken = null) => {
  const options = {};
  if (accessToken) {
    options.global = {
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
      },
    };
  }

  return createClient(
    process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL,
    process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY,
    options,
  );
};

export {createSupabaseClient};
```

> You should fetch rows from your Supabase tables and pass them to the frontend page using Next's `getServerSideProps()` hook. Change `src/pages/index.js` and add the code below to check if the current session is valid and whether it has the issued JWT from before. If so, it'll call the Supabase API to retrieve data from the `events` table we created in the beginning of this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should fetch rows from your Supabase tables and pass them to the frontend page using Next's `getServerSideProps()` hook. Change `src/pages/index.js` and add the code below to check if the current session is valid and whether it has a JWT. If so, it'll call the Supabase API to retrieve data from the `events` table we created in the beginning of this article.
```

FUSIONAUTH_URL="<ENTIRE FUSIONAUTH URL>" # example: http://localhost:9011
FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY="<Your FusionAuth API Key>"
FUSIONAUTH_JWT_KEY_ID="<Key Id for the imported HMAC secret in the Key Master>"
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL="<URL from Project URL>"
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY="<anon public key from Project API keys>"
```

## Testing

It's finally time to wrap everything up and test the application! Start the web server by running `npm run dev` and browse to [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Click Log in to be redirected to the FusionAuth login page. Fill in the credentials from one of the users you have inserted data to Supabase and you should be back to your application with a list of the events belonging to them. To check if everything is working accordingly, click Log out and repeat the same process using another user, and you should see a different set of events being listed.

By implementing insert, update and delete operations, you should have a working application that can use all of FusionAuth power to manage your users without having to worry about handling authentication and authorization anymore.

## Resources

> - [FusionAuth blog](https://fusionauth.io/blog?utm_source=supabase&utm_medium=guide)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FusionAuth blog](https://fusionauth.io/blog?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=supabase&utm_campaign=integration)
```

> - [FusionAuth documentation](https://fusionauth.io/docs?utm_source=supabase&utm_medium=guide)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FusionAuth documentation](https://fusionauth.io/docs/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=supabase&utm_campaign=integration)
```

Now, you'll create an application.

- Browse to **Applications** and click the green `+` icon to create a new application.
- Name it `Supabase`.
- Select the **OAuth** tab and put `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/fusionauth` in **Authorized redirect URLs** _(this will be handled by your Next.js application soon)_.
- Go to the **JWT** tab and click the **Enabled** switch.
- Change **Access token signing key** to `Auto generate a new key on save...`.
- Save the application.

When you are redirected back to the **Applications** page, locate the application you created and click the green magnifying glass to view its details. Find the **OAuth configuration** section and capture both the`Client Id` and `Client secret`.

You need to register your user for the created `Supabase` application.

- Navigate to the **Users** tab and find your user.
- Click on the black **Manage User** button under the **Action** heading in the list.
- Copy the **User Id** as you'll need this value later.
- Click on **Add registration**.

>     - If you only have one application, it will be automatically selected under **Application**. If you have more than one, you need to select it.

Author: I wrote this thinking of people who won't use Kickstart (e.g. people that already have a FusionAuth instance running), so maybe they only have 1 app. I can rephrase to focus on the more common use case though.

>     - If you only have one application, it will be automatically selected under **Application**. If you have more than one, you need to select it.

Reviewer: Okay, makes sense. Happy to leave it in.

![Creating new API Key](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/api-key-vend-jwt.png)

## Step 4: Creating a project in Supabase

Log in to your [Supabase account](https://app.supabase.com/), and click `New project`. Enter a **Name** for your project, a secure **Database Password** and click `Create new project` to save it. It may take a couple of minutes for your project to be provisioned.

![New Supabase project settings](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/new-project.png)

## Step 5: Creating a table and inserting data

Click the [Table editor](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/editor) icon in the sidebar menu and select `Create a new table`.

1. Name it `events`.
2. Make sure **Enable Row Level Security (RLS)** is checked _(you'll see more about this in the next step)_.
3. For every field below, click `Add column`, fill in the name and click the cog icon to edit its properties and uncheck **Is Nullable**.
    | Field     | Type          |
    |-----------|---------------|
    | `title`   | `text`        |
    | `date`    | `timestamptz` |
    | `user_id` | `text`        |
4. Click **Save**.

![Creating table](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/create-table.png)

> 

Author: No, it's part of "Creating a table and inserting data". Why? Is this confusing?

To make things simpler, we'll only show how to manually data using the web interface, but you can take a look [at these docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/javascript/insert) to see how to do that in your code.

> 

Author: It seems that we lost some content during the code review. I'm bringing it back.

  return {
    props: {
      events: response.data
    },
  };
}
```

In that same file, the `Home` component will have to check whether there are `events` being passed as a property and build a table with the records. To keep the code clean, we'll create another function, called `renderTable()`, to actually render it.

```jsx
const renderTable = (events) => {
  if (!Array.isArray(events)) {
    return null;
  }
  return (
    <div style={{marginTop: "20px"}}>
      <h2>Rows</h2>
      <table>
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>Id</th>
            <th>Title</th>
            <th>Date</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          {events.map((event) => (
            <tr key={event.id}>
              <td>{event.id}</td>
              <td>{event.title}</td>
              <td>{event.date}</td>
            </tr>
          ))}
        </tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function Home ({ events }) {
  const { data: session } = useSession();
  return (
    /* ... */
    <main>
      <LoginButton />
      {session && renderTable(events)}
    </main>
    /* ... */
  )
}
```

## Step 10: Configuring environment variables

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As promised, in this section you will configure environment variables to pass secrets to your NextJS application.

```

> > If you have cloned our [demo application](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-supabase), you can duplicate file `.env.local.dist` and create one named `.env.local` and replace the values there.

Reviewer: Maybe an aside?

```dotenv
FUSIONAUTH_ISSUER="<TENANT ISSUER FROM FUSIONAUTH>"
FUSIONAUTH_CLIENT_ID="<APP CLIENT ID FROM FUSIONAUTH>"
FUSIONAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET="<APP CLIENT SECRET FROM FUSIONAUTH>"
FUSIONAUTH_TENANT_ID="<TENANT ID>" # Leave blank if you only have the default tenant
FUSIONAUTH_URL="<ENTIRE FUSIONAUTH URL>" # example: http://localhost:9011
FUSIONAUTH_API_KEY="<Your FusionAuth API Key>"
FUSIONAUTH_JWT_KEY_ID="<Key Id for the imported HMAC secret in the Key Master>"
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL="<URL from Project URL>"
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY="<anon public key from Project API keys>"
```

## Testing

It's finally time to wrap everything up and test the application! Start the web server by running `npm run dev` and browse to [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Click Log in to be redirected to the FusionAuth login page. Fill in the credentials from one of the users you have inserted data to Supabase and you should be back to your application with a list of the events belonging to them. To check if everything is working accordingly, click Log out and repeat the same process using another user, and you should see a different set of events being listed.

> By implementing insert, update and delete operations, you should have a working application that can use all of FusionAuth power to manage your users without having to worry about handling authentication and authorization anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By implementing insert, update and delete operations, you can build a working event management application. FusionAuth is responsible for authenticating the user and you can manage them with the FusionAuth interface and APIs. You're also building on Supabase's RLS to ensure that users can only access their own events.
```

## Resources

- [FusionAuth blog](https://fusionauth.io/blog/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=supabase&utm_campaign=integration)
- [FusionAuth documentation](https://fusionauth.io/docs/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=supabase&utm_campaign=integration)

> export const Page = ({ children }) => <Layout meta={meta} children={children} />

Reviewer: Is this expected?

Author: Yes, it's part of their `.mdx`, as seen in https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/docs/pages/guides/integrations/integrations.mdx#L38

Reviewer: Awesome!

## Step 4: Creating a project in Supabase

Log in to your [Supabase account](https://app.supabase.com/), and click `New project`. Enter a **Name** for your project, a secure **Database Password** and click `Create new project` to save it. It may take a couple of minutes for your project to be provisioned.

![New Supabase project settings](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/new-project.png)

## Step 5: Creating a table and inserting data

Click the [Table editor](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/editor) icon in the sidebar menu and select `Create a new table`.

1. Name it `events`.
2. Make sure **Enable Row Level Security (RLS)** is checked _(you'll learn more about RLS in the next step)_.
3. Then, add the fields for this table. For every row below, click `Add column`. Set the name. Then, click the cog icon to edit its properties and uncheck **Is Nullable**, since all of these fields are required.
    | Name     | Type          |
    |-----------|---------------|
    | `title`   | `text`        |
    | `date`    | `timestamptz` |
    | `user_id` | `text`        |
4. Click **Save**.

![Creating table](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/create-table.png)

> To make things simpler for this tutorial, we'll only manually add data using the web interface. You can take a look [at these docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/javascript/insert) to see how to add data using code.

Author: I've removed this to focus on the integration itself.

Give it a meaningful name, like *"Users can only manage their own events"*, select `ALL` as **Allowed operation** and set both **USING expression** and **WITH CHECK expression** as `get_user_id_from_jwt() = user_id` to call the function created above to extract the **User Id** and match it against the table's `user_id` column. Click `Review` and finally `Save policy` to finish editing it.

![Creating RLS policy](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/rls-policy.png)

## Step 7: Grabbing API settings

Click `Project Settings` in the sidebar and select the `API` menu in the navigation menu that opened. You'll have to write down these three values from this page that will be later used when [configuring environment variables](#step-10-configuring-environment-variables):

1. `URL` from the Project URL section.
2. `anon public key` from Project API keys.
3. `JWT Secret` from JWT Settings _(you need to click the `Reveal` button to display this information)_.

> ![Supabase API settings](/docs/img/guides/integrations/fusionauth/api-settings.png)

Author: I've also cropped this image as it was hard to read.
